# Purposes of Using Processes and Threads
[[C69_Week4_processes_threads_1slide.pdf#search=Recap processes and threads|C69_Week4_processes_threads_1slide, p.3]]
# Differences between Processes
# Data structures
[[C69_Week4_processes_threads_1slide.pdf#search=Processes and threads – Kernel data structures|C69_Week4_processes_threads_1slide, p.5]]
# Creations
[[C69_Week4_processes_threads_1slide.pdf#search=Process creation versus user thread creation|C69_Week4_processes_threads_1slide, p.6]]
# Communications
[[C69_Week4_processes_threads_1slide.pdf#search=Process communication overheads|C69_Week4_processes_threads_1slide, p.7]]
# Overheads
Process -> high
Threads -> low
[[C69_Week4_processes_threads_1slide.pdf#search=Processes: A good but costly abstraction|C69_Week4_processes_threads_1slide, p.9]]
# Address spaces
Processes own their unique address spaces.
Threads share the same address space.
[[C69_Week4_processes_threads_1slide.pdf#search=Processes: A good but costly abstraction|C69_Week4_processes_threads_1slide, p.9]]
[[C69_Week4_processes_threads_1slide.pdf#search=(Side note: what about exec?)|C69_Week4_processes_threads_1slide, p.10]]
# Mapping from User Threads to Kernel Threads
[[C69_Week4_processes_threads_1slide.pdf#search=How are user threads mapped to kernel threads? (Lecture 2 view)|C69_Week4_processes_threads_1slide, p.11]]
## One-to-One Model
The user thread: The abstraction of the registers, the stack, and the function you want to execute.
The kernel thread: For every function you want to run, the OS creates a dedicated kernel thread. (For example, in Pintos, it is based on `thread.h` and `thread.c`)
[[C69_Week4_processes_threads_1slide.pdf#search=model|C69_Week4_processes_threads_1slide, p.12]]
## Many-to-One Model
How it works: A library in user space manages all the user threads. It decides which user thread gets to use the single kernel thread at any given time.
Limitation: Because there is only one kernel thread, only one user thread can actually be "doing work" at a time, even if you have multiple CPU cores. If that one kernel thread blocks (e.g. waiting for a disk read), all user threads are stuck.
[[C69_Week4_processes_threads_1slide.pdf#search=Many-to-one model|C69_Week4_processes_threads_1slide, p.14]]
## Many-to-Many Model
This model multplexes many user threads onto a smaller or equal number of kernel threads.
How it works: The OS creates a "pool" of kernel threads. The thread library then assigns user threads to the available kernel threads in that pool.
The Benefit: It aims to get the parallelism of the one-to-one model without the high overhead of creating a kernel thread for every single user thread.
The Complexity: It is very difficult to implement because it requires two different schedulers (the user-level library and the kernel) to coordinate with each other.
[[C69_Week4_processes_threads_1slide.pdf#search=Many-to-many model|C69_Week4_processes_threads_1slide, p.15]]

